Project Research Document - Cineview

X00090113 - Rhys Coleman

October 3, 2014

1 Detailed Discussion 

The concept of my project is to provide an android mobile application to the public that would make 

it easier for the user to organise their trips to the cinema to see their selected film.

The mobile application will allow the user to initially set a distance on the application of the distance 

they are willing to travel to visit a cinema this would be set to kilometres. The reason for this function 

is the differences between all users, Some users are willing to travel further as they may have the use 

of a motorised vehicle this will allow them to travel more of a distance compared with someone that 

may depend on public transport or the ability to walk or cycle to their destination. 

Once the initial distance is set up the user will be prompted to enter the film name into the 

application. Once the user hit the search button the application will request the mobile device to get 

the current location of the user using the built in GPS API of the device. After the location of the 

mobile device is gathered the application will then plot a radius around the devices current location of 

the distance that the user has set as the distance they have set on the application. 

After this radius has been found and created the application will search through the database of 

known cinemas and compare their GPS coordinates to the coordinates within the set radius of the 

users location. 

After all the cinemas in this radius have been found the application will then find the film searched by 

the user within each cinemas website by using the cinemas url’s which will also be store in the 

database. The application will the extract the viewing times for that film by using restful web services 

to request the data needed which in terms of the application will be the viewing times for the film 

that the user has searched.

Once this data has been received the application will display it to the user in a user friendly graphical

Interface.

The accessibility of this application will be as easy as possible as the scope of users will be able to 

range from a young child that is only learning to use a phone or mobile device to a senior citizen

That wouldn’t be technically savvy.

2 Existing Applications in this domain 

Comparison Table 

Cineview Cinema Guide Enterainment.ie Goggle 

 

Mobile application 

 

 

Multiple Cinemas 

 

 

GPS 

 

 

Distance controller 

 

 

Film Search 

 

 Yes Yes Yes No

 Yes Yes Yes Yes

 Yes No Yes No

 Yes No No No

 Yes Yes No Yes

3 Platform, Technologies and Libraries 

From my research this application could be built on any of the mobile platforms ( IOS, Android or 

Windows). I am choosing to base my application on Android as I am most familiar with this 

programing language. 

ADT Bundle

This is application development tool bundle. This contains all the SDK components

and a version of Eclipse IDE that we would need for the development of the

application. The key features of ADT Bundle are:

* Android SDK Tools

* Android Platform Tools

* Eclipse + ADT Plugin

* A system image for the emulator

Android studio

Like the ADT Bundle this is a development environment for android applications

While it does provide all of the same functions plus more additional functionality this software is still 

in beta testing which could cause some errors while attempting to develop my android application.

Azure

Windows Azure is a cloud platform. It can be used for building and maintaining

applications. Any language, tool or framework can be used to build applications.

SQL

SQL is a language used for the design and management of data which is held in a relational DBMS. It 

has the ability of insertion, deletion and the ability to update all the elements held in a database. It 

also supports database queries in order to get information from the database.

XML

XML will be the main data format for the communication between the user’s mobile device and 

Azure. We have chosen XML because it is robust due to the fact it is based on a proven standard and 

provides a durable format for information storage and the transmission of that information. It also 

provides a common syntax for messaging systems for the exchange of information between 

applications. As well as this it is also free and makes code scalable.

Json

Json could be an alternative to XML as it is neater easier to read for humans.

It is processed easier than XML as is structure is simpler.

4 The risks 

There are many possible risks to this project. 

 Time constraints may not allow me to add all the functionality that I wish to best demonstrate

my project to the best it can be.

 Being an inexperienced android programmer could lead to 

o Not programming in the most efficient manner available to the language.

o Not using all the functionality available

 The wifi/mobile data allowing me clear connectivity to communicate with my azure server

and the webpages of the cinemas.

 GPS location being accurate to ensure that the user is in the correct location.

 The development tool to work correctly to allow me to program and debug my applications 

code and functionality.

 My testing devices having all the functionality I need.
